Hexes and Psi spells both use the energy of thought, and manipulate it using surprisingly similar methods. A computerized CAD is, fundamentally, little different from a purely-magical one. The biggest difference is that the technological systems of the Psi CAD are orders of magnitude more efficient (at least in terms of raw energy expenditure) than the ephemeral computations of an Artifact, to the point where they can perform great works using merely the waste media lingering around the user's head, only tapping into the source as a last resort. This efficiency does, of course, come at a tradeoff, that being the heavy limitations on spell composition inherent to the fixed mechanical architecture of the CAD. No dynamically-generated spells, essentially no loops within spells, only very limited conditionals. In contrast, the formless nature of hex computation means that the system is not restricted to pre-etched circuits or binary logic, and can come as close to a perfect Turing machine as is possible within a finite system.

There is no reason these two approaches to the same magic cannot interact, it's just that nobody has done it before. The ancient hexcasters simply did not have physical computers powerful enough to be of any use here, and the inventors of the Psi system dismissed hexes as a sorely outdated practice, similar to how many chemists scoff at alchemy.

It seems that one group of hexcasters did once attempt to create a technological system to run their hexes, but they were greatly persecuted for their use of a "profane star" at its core, and were unable to complete their work before being wiped out.
